Today is Saturday on August 12th

About the Tutorial
Computer is an advanced electronic device that takes raw data as an input from the user and processes it under the control of a set of instructions (called program), produces a result (output), and saves it for future use.
This tutorial explains the foundational (note: I could not find this word in the Oxford Dictionary) concepts of computer hardware, software, operating system, peripheral, etc. along with how to get the most value and impact from computer.

Audience
This tutorial has been prepared for beginners as well as advanced learners who want to deal with computers. The tutorial is also very useful for undergraduate student of computer science, engineering, business administration, management, science, commerce and arts, where an introductory course on computers is part of curriculum.
After completing this tutorial, you will find yourself at a moderate level of expertise in the knowledge of computer basics from where you can take yourself to the next level.

Prerequisite
Knowledge of computers is not a prerequisite to follow the contents of this tutorial. This tutorial assumes no background in Computers or Computer Programming.

Copyright & Disclaimer
(c) Copyright 2017 by Tutorial Point (I) Pvt. Ltd.
All the contents and graphics published in this e-book are the property of Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. The user of this e-book is prohibited to reuse, retain, copy, distribute or republish any contents or a part of contents of this e-book in any manner without written consent of the publisher.
We strive to update the contents of our website and tutorials an timely and as precisely as possible, however, the contents many contain inaccuracies or errors. Tutorials Point (I) Pvt. Ltd. provides no guarantee regarding the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of our website or its contents including this tutorial. If you discover any errors on our website or in this tutorial, please notify us at contact@tutorialspoint.com

   vocabulary review:
   peripheral
   undergraduate
   commerce
   curriculum
   moderate
   expertise
   prerequisite (= precondition)
   requisite
   prohibit
   consent
   strive
   timely, timeliness
   precise, precisely
   accurate, accuracy, inaccuracy
   disclaim, disclaimer
   
