Today is Sunday on August 13th

Lesson 2: page 1 and 2

----------------------

1. Computer fundamentals -- overview

Today's world is an information-rich world and it has become a necessity for everyone to know about computers. A computer is an electronic data processing device, which accepts and stores data input, processes the data input, and generates the output as required format.
The purpose of this tutorial is to introduce you to Computers and its fundamentals.

Functionalities of computer
It we look at it in a very broad sense, any digital computer carries out the following five functions:
Step 1: Takes data as input.
Step 2: Stores the data/instructions in its memory and uses them as required.
Step 3: Processes the data and converts it into useful information.
Step 4: Generates the output.
Step 5: Controls all the above four steps.

Advantages of Computers
Following are certain advantages of computers:
High Speed:
     Computer is a very fast device.
     It is capable of performing calculation of very large number of data.
     The computer has unit of speed in microsecond, nanosecond, and even the picosecond.
     It can preform millions of calculations in a few seconds as compared to a man who will spend many months to preform the same task.

Accuracy:
    In addition to being very fast, computers are very accurate.
    The calculation are 100% error free.
    Computers preform all jobs with 100% accuracy provided that the input is correct.

Storage Capability:
    Memory is a very important characteristic of computers.
    A computer has much more storage capacity then human beings.
    It can store large amount of data.
    It can store any type of data such as images, videos, text, etc.

Diligence:
    Unlike human beings, a computer is free from monotony, tiredness, and lack of concentration.
    It can work continuously without any error and boredom.
    It can perform repeated takes with the same speed and accuracy.

Versatility:
    A computer is a very versatile machine
    a computer is very flexible in performing the jobs to be done.
    This machine can be used to solve the problems related to various fields.
    At one instance, it may be solving a complex scientific problem and the very next moment it may be playing a card game.

Reliability:
    A computer is reliable machine.
    Modern electronic components have long lives.
    Computers are designed to make maintenance easy.

Automation:
    Computer is an automatic machine.
    Automation is the ability to perform a given task automatically. Once the computer receives a program i.e: the program is stored in the computer memory, then the program and instruction can control the program execution without human instruction.

*** new vocabulary ***
    necessity
    function, functional, functionality
    accuracy
    characteristic
    being
    diligence
    monotony
    concentrate, concentration
    boredom
    versatile, versatility
    reliable, reliability
    
