Today is Monday on August 14th

lesson 03: page 3 and 4

-----------------------

Reduction in Paperwork and Cost
    The use of computers for data processing in an organization leads to reduction in paperwork and results in speeding up the process.
    As data in electronic files can be retrieved as and when required, the problem of maintenance of large number of paper files gets reduced.
    Though the initial investment for installing a computer is high, it substantially reduces the cost of each of its transaction.

Disadvantages of Computers
    Following are certain disadvantages of computers:
    No I.Q
       A computer is a machine that has no intelligence to perform an task.
       Each instruction has to be given to the computer.
       A computer cannot take any decision on its own.

    Dependency
	It functions as per the user's instruction, thus it is fully dependent on humans.

    Environment
	The operating environment of the computer should be dust free and suitable.

    No Feeling
       Computers have no feeling or emotions.
       It cannot make judgment based on feeling, taste, experience, and knowledge unlike humans.


2. Computer Fundamentals -- Applications

In this chapter, we will discuss the application of computers in various fields.

Business
A computer has high speed of calculation, diligence, accuracy, reliability, or versatility which has made it an integrated part in all business organization.

Computer is used in business organization:
    Payroll calculation
    Budgeting
    Sales analysis
    Financial forecasting
    Managing employee database
    Maintenance of stocks, etc.

Banking
Today, banking is almost totally ??? (depend) on computers.

banks provide the following facilities:
    Online accounting facility, which includes checking current balance, making deposits and overdraft, checking interest charge, shared, and trustee records.
    ATM machines which are completely automated are making it even easier for customers to deal with banks.

Insurance
Insurance companies are keeping all records up-to-date with the help of computers. Insurance companies, finance houses, and stock broking (broke) firms are widely using computers for their concerns.
Insurance companies are maintaining a database of all clients with information showing:
    Procedure to continue with policies
    Starting date of the policies
    Next due installment of a policy
    Maturity date
    Interests due
    Survival benefits
    Bonus

new vocabulary overview
    paperwork
    substantial, substantially
    transact, transaction
    payroll
    budget
    stock
    overdraft
    trustee
    finance
    firm
    broke
    procedure
    installment
    maturity
    interest noun
    survival
    bonus
