Today is Wednesday on August 30th

lesson 15 : page 20 and 21

--------------------------

6. Computer Fundamentals -- Central Processing Unit

Central Processing Unit (= CPU) consists o the following features:
	CPU is considered as the brain of the computer.
	CPU performs all types of data processing.
	It stores data, intermediate results, and instructions (program).
	It controls the operations of all part of the computer.

CPU (?itself) has (the) following components: (in it)
    Memory or Storage Unit
    Control Unit
    ALU (= Arithmetic Logic Unit)

Memory or Storage Unit
This unit can store instructions, data, and intermediate results. This unit supplies information to other units of the computer when needed. It is also known as internal storage unit or the main memory or the primary memory or Random Access Memory (=RAM).
Its size affects speed, power, and capability. Primary memory and secondary memory are two types of memories in the computer. Functions of the memory unit are:
    It stores all the data and the instructions required for processing.
    It stores intermediate results of processing.
    It stores the final results of processing before these results are released to tn output device.
    All inputs and outputs are transmitted through the main memory.

Control Unit
This unit controls the operations of all parts of the computer but does not carry out and actual data processing operations.
Functions of this units are:
	  It is responsible for controlling the transfer of data and instructions among other units of a computer.
	  It manages and coordinates all the units of the computer.
	  It obtains the instructions form the memory, interprets them and directs the operation of the computer.
	  It communicates with Input/Output devices for transfer of data or results from storage.
	  It does not process or store data.

ALU (Arithmetic Logic Unit)
This unit consists of two subsections namely:
     Arithmetic Section
     Logic Section

Arithmetic Section
Function of arithmetic section is to perform arithmetic operations like addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. All complex operations are done by making repetitive use o the above operations.

Logic Section
Function of logic section is to perform logic operations such as comparing, selecting, matching and merging of data.

*** new vocabulary ***
    Central Processing Unit CPU
    internal storage memory,
    main memory,
    primary memory
    Random Access Memory => RAM
    transmit (tt)
    coordinate
    intermediate
    repetitive
    
