Today is Saturday on October 7th

lesson 41 page 67 and 68

------------------------

21. Computer Fundamental -- Operating System

The operating system is a program with the following features:
    An operating system is a program that acts as as interface between the software and the  computer hardware.
    It is an integrated set of specialized program used to mange overall resources and operations of the computer.
    It is a specialized software that control and monitors the execution of all other programs that reside in the computer, including application programs and other system software.

Objectives of Operating System.
The objective of the operating system are:
    To make the computer system convenient to use in an efficient manner.
    To hide the details of the hardware resources from the users.
    To provide users a convenient interface to use the computer system.
    To act as an intermediary between the hardware and its users, making it easier for the users to access and use other resources.
    To manage the resources of a computer system.
    To keep track of who is suing which resource, granting requests, and mediating conflicting requests from different programs and users.
    To provide efficient and fair sharing of resources among users and programs.

Characteristics of Operating System
Here is a list of some of the most prominent characteristic features of Operating System:
    Memory Management: Keep track of the primary memory, i.e. what part of it is in use by whom, what part is not in use, etc and allocates the memory when a process or program requests it.
    Process Management: Allocates the Processor (CPU) to a process and de-allocates the processor when it is no longer required.
    Device Management: keeps track of all the devices. This is also called I/O controller that decides which process gets the device, when, and for how much time.
    File Management: Allocates and de-allocates the resources and decides who gets the resources.
    Job Accounting: Keeps track of time and resources used by various jobs and/or users.
    Control Over System Performance: Records delays between the request for service and from the system.
    Interaction with the Operators: Interaction may take place via the console of the computer in the from of instructions. The operating system acknowledges the same, does the corresponding action, and inform the operating by a display screen.
    Error Detecting Aids: Production of dumps, traces, error messages, and other debugging and error-detecting methods.
    Coordination Between Other Software and Users: Coordination and assignment of compilers, interpreters and other software to the various users of the computer systems.

*** new vocabulary ***
    overall
    mediate, mediating
    intermediary
    by means of something
    acknowledge
    inform
    
