Today is Monday on October 8th

lesson 43 page  71 and 72

-------------------------

23. Computer Fundamental -- How to Buy a Computer?

In this chapter, we will supply relevant information to help you buy a desktop on component by component basis. As desktops are highly customizable , so it is better to learn about the main part and then visit the manufacturer or the retailer shop or site, instead of just looking at some specific model directly.
Popular desktop brand are: Dell, Lenovo, HP and Apple. Always compare the desktops based on their specification and base price.

Monitor
    Size: It is the diagonal size of the LCD screen. Larger the are, bigger the picture screen. A bigger picture is preferable for movie watching and gaming. It will increase the productivity as well.
    Resolution: This is the number of pixels on the screen. For example 24-inch display is 1920 x 1200 (width by length) and 22-inch display is 1680 x 1050. High resolution provides better picture quality and a nice gaming experience.
    Input: Nowadays monitors can accept inputs from cable as well apart from the computer They can also have USB port.
    Stand: Some monitors come with adjustable stands while some may not
    Recommended: 24 inch LCD.

Operating System:
    Operating system is the main software of the computer as everything will run on it in one from of other.
    There are primarily three choices: Windows, Linux and Apple OS X.
    Linux is free, however people generally do no use it for home purpose.
    Apple OS X works only on Apple desktops.
    Windows 7 is very popular among desktop users.
    Most of the computers come pre-equipped   with Windows 7 Starter edition.
    Windows 8 is recently introduced and is available in the market.
    Windows 7 and Windows 8 come in multiple versions from starter, home basic, home premium, professional, ultimate and enterprise editions.
    As the edition version increases, their features list and price increases.
    Recommended: Windows 7 Home Premium.

Optical Drive (CD / DVD / Blu-ray)
    Optical drive is the drive on a computer, which is responsible for using CD, DVD  and Blu-ray discs.
    Nowadays DVD burners are industry standards.
    DVD burner can burn CD, DVD and play them.
    DVD burner is cheaper than Blu-ray divers.
    Blu-ray drivers can play HD movies but costlier component.
    Recommended: DVD burner.

Memory
    RAM is considered as computer memory as the performance of a computer is directly proportional ti its memory and processor.
    Today's software and operating system require high memory.
    Today commonly used RAM is DDR3, which operates at 1066 Mhz.
    As per Windows 7, 1 GB is the minimum RAM required to function properly.
    Recommended: 4 GB.

*** new vocabulary ***
    relevant
    retail, retailer
    custom, customize, customizable
    diagonal
    stand
    DVD burner, DVD writer
    cost, costly, costlier, costliest
    proportion, proportional
    
