Today is Tuesday on October 10th

lesson 44 page 73 and 74

------------------------

Hard Drive:
    Hard disk is used for storage purpose. Higher the capacity, more data you can save in it.
    Nowadays computers are equipped with 500GB hard drive which can be extended to 2TB.
    Most hard drives in desktop operate at the standard performance speed of 7200RPM.
    Recommended: 500GB.

CPU
    Frequency (GHz) This determines the sped of the processor. Most the speed, better the CPU.
    Cores. Nowadays CPU(s) come with more than one core, which is like having more than one CPU in the computer. Program which can take advantage of multi-core environment will run faster on such machines.
    Brand. Intel and AMD, both are equivalent. Intel is  in lead.
    Cache. Higher the L1, L2 cache, better the CPU performance.
    Recommended: Inter Core i3-3225 3.30 GHz Processor.

24. Computer Fundamental -- Available Courses

Nowadays various types of courses are provided by educational institution. Following are some of the common as well as important course.

course:          name:                                                               duration (year) 	    minimum qualification
B.C.A		 Bachelor of Computer Application				     3	      		    10 + 2
P.G.D.C.A	 Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Application			     1			    Graduation
M.C.A		 Master of Computer Application	   				     3			    Graduation
B.S(s) (CS)	 Bachelor of Science (Computer Science)				     3			    10 + 2
M.S(c) (CS)	 Master of Science (Computer Science)				     2			    Graduation
B.Tech (CSE)	 Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science and Engineering)	     4			    10 + 2
B.Tech (IT)	 Bachelor of Technology (Information of Technology)		     4			    10 + 2
M.Tech (CSE)	 Master of Technology (Computer Science and Engineering)	     2			    B.Tech / B.E
M.Tech (IT)	 Master of Technology (Information Technology)			     2			    B.Tech / B.E
B.E (CSE)	 Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Science and Engineering)	     4			    10 + 2
B.E (IT)	 Bachelor of Engineering (Information Technology)		     4			    10 + 2

Diploma Courses
Apart from regular degree course, computer enters also provide short-term courses (from 3 months to 1 year). Online courses on topics such as Computer Basics, Programming Languages Training, Hardware Training, and Network Certification are also gaining in popularity.

*** new vocabulary ***
    RPM
    diploma
    bachelor
    master
    
